Global refactor of themes section (#2129)
PrestaShop/docs: themes/getting-started/quick-start.md

---
title: Quick start
weight: 2
---

# Quick start

Create your own custom theme in 5 minutes by cloning [Hummingbird]({{< relref "/9/themes/hummingbird" >}}), the default PrestaShop theme, and using it as a starting point.

{{% notice info %}}
Hummingbird requires **PrestaShop 9.1 or later**.

> {{% /notice %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% notice info %}}
Hummingbird's compatibility is strictly tied to specific PrestaShop releases. To find the correct theme version for your store, please refer to the compatibility matrix on the [Hummingbird repository].
{{% /notice %}}
```
I think it would be better to get a compatibility matrix on HB readme because for moment PrestaShop doesn't manage well themes upgrade and compatibility.

## Clone Hummingbird as a base

Replace `mytheme` with your theme name:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/PrestaShop/hummingbird.git mytheme
cd mytheme
rm -rf .git && git init   # Remove Hummingbird's history and start your own
```

## Configure your theme

Edit `config/theme.yml`:

```yaml
name: mytheme # The name must match the directory name
display_name: My Theme
version: 1.0.0
author:
  name: "Your Name"
  email: "you@example.com"
  url: "https://example.com"

meta:
  compatibility:
    from: 9.1.0
    to: ~9.1.0
    framework: bootstrap-v5.3.3  # Informational, not parsed by PrestaShop
```

{{% notice info %}}
The `name` field must match the theme's directory name exactly.
{{% /notice %}}

## Install dependencies and build

From your theme's root directory, install dependencies and compile the source files into production-ready assets:

```bash
npm ci
npm run build
```

## Activate the theme

1. Place your theme folder in the `/themes/` directory of your PrestaShop installation.
2. In the Back Office, go to _Design > Theme & Logo_.
3. Select your theme and click _Use this theme_.

> Alternatively, you can upload your theme as a `.zip` file directly from the _Design > Theme & Logo_ page in the Back Office.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The recommended method to install your theme is through the Back Office to ensure all installation processes are handled correctly:

1. In the Back Office, go to _Design > Theme & Logo_.
2. Click on **Add new theme** and upload your theme as a `.zip` file.
3. Once uploaded, select your theme and click _Use this theme_.

Alternatively, you can manually place your extracted theme folder in the `/themes/` directory of your PrestaShop installation and then activate it from the Back Office. However, the `.zip` upload method is preferred for future-proofing.
```

I suggest we flip the installation methods here and make the Back Office .zip upload the primary/recommended one, rather than the manual folder upload.

While both methods currently just extract the files, promoting the BO upload as the standard method is safer for the future (future-proofing). If we ever add specific logic during theme installation (e.g., executing scripts, checking dependencies, or triggering specific hooks upon upload), the manual folder placement will bypass these steps. It's better to train our developers to use the BO interface now.

Reviewer 2: I agree with @ga-devfront - also, you might not realize this, but these two methods act a little differently... :)
